
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Why does preregistration increase the persuasiveness of evidence? A Bayesian rationalization.

Preregistration is becoming increasingly popular in the psychological
sciences as a response to the reproducibility crisis. At the same time,
many researchers struggle to translate their theories into precise
predictions and may feel overwhelmed by the need to prespecify every
minitous detail of their analysis plan. Should they surrender and
discard the idea of preregistration altogether? Not at all. We argue for
the utility of preregistration beyond strictly confirmatory studies.
From a perspective of Bayesian philosophy of science, we define a formal
objective for preregistration that neither declares posthoc changes to a
preregistration to be sinful nor punishes rigour. This objective rests
on the relevence of “theoretical risk” (Meehl 1978), which is a
generalization of type-I error rate, for judging the evidential support
for theories. A common view is that preregistration is supposed to limit
the type-I error rate by committing to a specific data analysis plan
before data are collected. In our view, the purpose of preregistration
is to reduce the uncertainty in judging the theoretical risk of a given
study. We argue that this perspective provides a principled
justification for preregistration, extends its utility, and is more
closely aligned with researchers’ intuition about evidential support.
The more we know about how researchers arrived at their findings, the
smaller our uncertainty about the theoretical risk they accepted, and
the more pursuasive is the researchers’ evidence. Preregistrations
effectively reduce uncertainty about theorethical risk, which increases
the persuasiveness of evidence, and hence are warranted for any
empierical study.

[🗎 PDF of draft
🗎](https://aaronpeikert.github.io/bayes-prereg/manuscript.pdf)

## References

<div id="refs" class="references">

<div id="ref-meehlTheoreticalRisksTabular1978">

Meehl, Paul E. 1978. “Theoretical Risks and Tabular Asterisks: Sir Karl,
Sir Ronald, and the Slow Progress of Soft Psychology.” *Journal of
Consulting and Clinical Psychology* 46 (4): 806–34.
<https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-006X.46.4.806>.

</div>

</div>
